# FAR 25.104 — Nonavailable articles

Part 25 - Foreign Acquisition › Subpart 25.1 - Buy American-Supplies

(a) The following articles have been determined to be nonavailable in accordance with 25.103 (b)(1)(i): (1) Antimony, as metal or oxide. (2) Bamboo shoots. (3) Bananas. (4) Bismuth. (5) Books, trade, text, technical, or scientific; newspapers; pamphlets; magazines; periodicals; printed briefs and films; not printed in the United States and for which domestic editions are not available. (6) Brazil nuts, unroasted. (7) Capers. (8) Cashew nuts. (9) Chestnuts. (10) Chrome ore or chromite. (11) Cocoa beans. (12) Coconut and coconut meat, unsweetened, in shredded, desiccated, or similarly prepared form. (13) Coffee, raw or green bean. (14) Cork, wood or bark and waste. (15) Cover glass, microscope slide. (16) Fair linen, altar. (17) Fibers of the following types: abaca, abace, agave, coir, flax, jute, jute burlaps, palmyra, and sisal. (18) Grapefruit sections, canned. (19) Hemp yarn. (20) Hog bristles for brushes. (21) Hyoscine, bulk. (22) Modacrylic fiber. (23) Nitroguanidine (also known as picrite). (24) Oranges, mandarin, canned. (25) Pineapple, canned. (26) Quartz crystals. (27) Rubber, crude and latex (natural). (28) Rutile. (29) Silk, raw and unmanufactured. (30) Spare and replacement parts for equipment of foreign manufacture, and for which domestic parts are not available. (31) Spices and herbs, in bulk. (32) Swords and scabbards. (33) Tapioca flour and cassava. (34) Tartar, crude; tartaric acid and cream of tartar in bulk. (35) Tea in bulk. (36) Tin in bars, blocks, and pigs. (37) Vanilla beans. (38) Venom, cobra. (39) Water chestnuts. (b) This list will be published in the Federal Register for public comment no less frequently than once every five years. Unsolicited recommendations for deletions from this list may be submitted at any time and should provide sufficient data and rationale to permit evaluation (see 1.502 ).
