# FAR 43.205 — Contract clauses

Part 43 - Contract Modifications › Subpart 43.2 - Change Orders

(a) (1) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.243-1 , Changes-Fixed-Price, in solicitations and contracts when a fixed-price contract for supplies is contemplated. (2) If the requirement is for services, other than architect-engineer or other professional services, and no supplies are to be furnished, the contracting officer shall use the clause with its AlternateI. (3) If the requirement is for services (other than architect-engineer services, transportation, or research and development) and supplies are to be furnished, the contracting officer shall use the clause with its AlternateII. (4) If the requirement is for architect-engineer or other professional services, the contracting officer shall use the clause with its AlternateIII. (5) If the requirement is for transportation services, the contracting officer shall use the clause with its AlternateIV. (6) If it is desired to include the clause in solicitations and contracts when a research and development contract is contemplated, the contracting officer shall use the clause with its Alternate V. (b) (1) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.243-2 , Changes-Cost-Reimbursement, in solicitations and contracts when a cost-reimbursement contract for supplies is contemplated. (2) If the requirement is for services and no supplies are to be furnished, the contracting officer shall use the clause with its AlternateI. (3) If the requirement is for services and supplies are to be furnished, the contracting officer shall use the clause with its AlternateII. (4) If the requirement is for construction, the contracting officer shall use the clause with its AlternateIII. (5) [Reserved] (6) If it is desired to include the clause in solicitations and contracts when a research and development contract is contemplated, the contracting officer shall use the clause with its Alternate V. (c) Insert the clause at 52.243-3 , Changes-Time-and-Materials or Labor-Hours, in solicitations and contracts when a time-and-materials or labor-hour contract is contemplated. The contracting officer may vary the 30-day period in paragraph (c) of the clause according to agency procedures. (d) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.243-4 , Changes, in solicitations and contracts for- (1) Dismantling, demolition, or removal of improvements; and (2) Construction, when a fixed-price contract is contemplated and the contract amount is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. (e) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.243-5 , Changes and Changed Conditions, in solicitations and contracts for construction, when the contract amount is not expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. (f) The contracting officer may insert a clause, substantially the same as the clause at 52.243-6 , Change Order Accounting, in solicitations and contracts for supply and research and development contracts of significant technical complexity, if numerous changes are anticipated. The clause may be included in solicitations and contracts for construction if deemed appropriate by the contracting officer.
