# FAR 52.240-1 — Prohibition on Unmanned Aircraft Systems Manufactured or Assembled by American Security Drone Act-Covered Foreign Entities

Part 52 - Solicitation Provisions and Contract Clauses › Subpart 52.2 - Text of Provisions and Clauses

As prescribed in 40.202-8 , insert the following clause: Prohibition on Unmanned Aircraft Systems Manufactured or Assembled by American Security Drone Act-Covered Foreign Entities (Nov 2024) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause— American Security Drone Act-covered foreign entity means an entity included on a list developed and maintained by the Federal Acquisition Security Council (FASC) and published in the System for Award Management (SAM) at https://www.sam.gov (section 1822 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024, Pub. L. 118-31, 41 U.S.C. 3901 note prec.). FASC-prohibited unmanned aircraft system means an unmanned aircraft system manufactured or assembled by an American Security Drone Act-covered foreign entity. Unmanned aircraft means an aircraft that is operated without the possibility of direct human intervention from within or on the aircraft ( 49 U.S.C. 44801(11 )). Unmanned aircraft system means an unmanned aircraft and associated elements (including communication links and the components that control the unmanned aircraft) that are required for the operator to operate safely and efficiently in the national airspace system ( 49 U.S.C. 44801(12) ). (b) Prohibition. The Contractor is prohibited from— (1) Delivering any FASC-prohibited unmanned aircraft system, which includes unmanned aircraft (i.e., drones) and associated elements (sections 1823 and 1826 of Pub. L. 118-31, 41 U.S.C. 3901 note prec.); (2) On or after December 22, 2025, operating a FASC-prohibited unmanned aircraft system in the performance of the contract (section 1824 of Pub. L. 118-31, 41 U.S.C. 3901 note prec.); and (3) On or after December 22, 2025, using Federal funds for the procurement or operation of a FASC-prohibited unmanned aircraft system (section 1825 of Pub. L. 118-31, 41 U.S.C. 3901 note prec.). (c) Procedures. The Contractor shall search SAM at https://www.sam.gov for the FASC-maintained list of American Security Drone Act-covered foreign entities prior to proposing, or using in performance of the contract, any unmanned aircraft system. Additionally, the Contractor shall ensure any effort or expenditure associated with a FASC-prohibited unmanned aircraft system is consistent with a corresponding exemption, exception, or waiver determination expressly stated in the contract. (d) Exemptions, exceptions, and waivers. The prohibitions in this clause do not apply where the agency has determined an exemption, exception, or waiver applies and the contract indicates that such a determination has been made. [See sections 1823 through 1825 and 1832 of Public Law 118-31 ( 41 U.S.C. 3901 note prec.) for statutory requirements pertaining to exemptions, exceptions, and waivers.]. (e) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall insert the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (e), in all subcontracts and other contractual instruments, including subcontracts for the acquisition of commercial products or commercial services. (End of clause)
