# FAR 52.232-31 — Invitation to Propose Financing Terms

Part 52 - Solicitation Provisions and Contract Clauses › Subpart 52.2 - Text of Provisions and Clauses

As prescribed in 32.205 (b) and 32.206 , insert the following provision: Invitation to Propose Financing Terms (Dec 2022) (a) The offeror is invited to propose terms under which the Government shall make contract financing payments during contract performance. The financing terms proposed by the offeror shall be a factor in the evaluation of the offeror’s proposal. The financing terms of the successful offeror and the clause, Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Products and Commercial Services, at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.232-29 , shall be incorporated in any resulting contract. (b) The offeror agrees that in the event of any conflict between the terms proposed by the offeror and the terms in the clause at FAR 52.232-29 , Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Products and Commercial Services, the terms of the clause at FAR 52.232-29 shall govern. (c) Because of statutory limitations ( 10 U.S.C. 3805 and 41 U.S.C. 4505 ), the offeror’s proposed financing shall not be acceptable if it does not conform to the following limitations: (1) Delivery payments shall be made only for supplies delivered and accepted, or services rendered and accepted in accordance with the payment terms of this contract; (2) Contract financing payments shall not exceed 15 percent of the contract price in advance of any performance of work under the contract; (3) The terms and conditions of the contract financing must be appropriate or customary in the commercial marketplace; and (4) The terms and conditions of the contract financing must be in the best interests of the United States. (d) The offeror’s proposal of financing terms shall include the following: (1) The proposed contractual language describing the contract financing (see FAR 32.202-2 for appropriate definitions of types of payments); and (2) A listing of the earliest date and greatest amount at which each contract financing payment may be payable and the amount of each delivery payment. Any resulting contract shall provide that no contract financing payment shall be made at any earlier date or in a greater amount than shown in the offeror’s listing. (e) The offeror’s proposed prices and financing terms shall be evaluated to determine the cost to the United States of the proposal using the interest rate and delivery schedule specified elsewhere in this solicitation. (End of provision)
