# FAR 52.247-51 — Evaluation of Export Offers

Part 52 - Solicitation Provisions and Contract Clauses › Subpart 52.2 - Text of Provisions and Clauses

As prescribed in 47.305-6 (e) , insert the following provision: Evaluation of Export Offers (Jan 2001) (a) Port handling and ocean charges-other than DoD water terminals. Port handling and ocean charges in tariffs on file with the Bureau of Domestic Regulation, Federal Maritime Commission, or other appropriate regulatory authorities as of the date of bid opening (or the closing date specified for receipt of offers) and which will be effective for the date of the expected initial shipment will be used in the evaluation of offers. (b) F.o.b. origin, transportation under Government bill of lading. (1) Offers shall be evaluated and awards made on the basis of the lowest laid down cost to the Government at the overseas port of discharge, via methods and ports compatible with required delivery dates and conditions affecting transportation known at the time of evaluation. Included in this evaluation, in addition to the f.o.b. origin price of the item, shall be the inland transportation costs from the point of origin in the United States to the port of loading, port handling charges at the port of loading, and ocean shipping costs from the United States port of loading (see paragraph (d) of this clause) to the overseas port of discharge. The Government may designate the mode of routing of shipment and may load from other than those ports specified for evaluation purposes. (2) Offers shall be evaluated on the basis of shipment through one of the ports set forth in paragraph (d) of this clause to the overseas port of discharge. Evaluation shall be made on the basis of shipment through the port that will result in the lowest cost to the Government. (3) Ports of loading shall be considered as destinations within the meaning of the term "f.o.b. destination" as that term is used in the F.o.b. Origin clause of this contract. (c) F.o.b. port of loading with inspection and acceptance at origin. (1) Offers shall be evaluated on the basis of the lowest laid down cost to the Government at the overseas port of discharge via methods compatible with required delivery dates and conditions affecting transportation known at the time of evaluation. Included in this evaluation, in addition to the price to the United States port of loading (see paragraph (c)(2) of this clause), shall be the port handling charges at the port of loading and the ocean shipping cost from the port of loading (see paragraph (d) of this clause) to the overseas port of dis-charge. (2) Unless offers are applicable only to f.o.b. origin delivery under Government bills of lading (see paragraph (b) of this provision), offerors shall designate below at least one of the ports of loading listed in paragraph (d) of this clause as their place of delivery. Failure to designate at least one of the ports as the point to which delivery will be made by the Contractor may render the offer nonresponsive. Place of Delivery: ________________________________ [ Offerors insert at least one of the ports listed in paragraph (d) of this clause. ] (d) Ports of loading for evaluation of offers. Terminals to be used by the Government in evaluating offers are as follows: (For the information of the offerors, ocean and port handling charges are set forth if the terminal named is a DoD water terminal.) Ports/Terminals of Loading Combined Ocean and Port Handing Charges to (Indicate Country) Unit of Measure: i.e.,Metric Ton, Measurement Ton, Cubic Foot, Etc. _____________ _____________ _____________ _____________ _____________ _____________ _____________ _____________ _____________ (e) Ports of loading nominated by offeror. The ports of loading named in paragraph (d) of this clause are considered by the Government to be appropriate for this solicitation due to their compatibility with methods and facilities required to handle the cargo and types of vessels and to meet the required overseas delivery dates. Notwithstanding the foregoing, offerors may nominate additional ports of loading that the offeror considers to be more favorable to the Government. The Government may disregard such nominated ports if, after considering the quantity and nature of the supplies concerned, the requisite cargo handling capability, the available sailings on U.S.-flag vessels, and other pertinent transportation factors, it determines that use of the nominated ports is not compatible with the required overseas delivery date. United States Great Lakes ports of loading may be considered in the evaluation of offers only for those items scheduled in this provision for delivery during the ice-free or navigable period as proclaimed by the authorities of the St. Lawrence Seaway (normal period is between April 15 and November 30 annually). All ports named, including those nominated by offerors and determined to be eligible as provided in this provision, shall be considered in evaluating all offers received in order to establish the lowest laid down cost to the Government at the overseas port of discharge. All determinations shall be based on availability of ocean services by U.S.-flag vessels only. Additional U.S. port(s) of loading nominated by offeror, if any: ________________________________________________ (f) Price basis. Offeror shall indicate whether prices are based on- □ Paragraph (b), f.o.b. origin, transportation by GBL to port listed in paragraph (d); □ Paragraph (c), f.o.b. destination ( i.e., a port listed in paragraph (d)); □ Paragraph (e), f.o.b. origin, transportation by GBL to port nominated in paragraph (e); and/or □ Paragraph (e), f.o.b. destination ( i.e., a port nominated in paragraph (e)). (End of provision) Alternate I (Feb 2006) . When the CONUS ports of export are DoD water terminals, delete paragraph (a) from the basic provision and substitute for it the following paragraph (a): (a) Port handling and ocean charges-DoD water terminals. The port handling and ocean charges are set forth in paragraph (d) of this provision for the information of offerors and are current as of the time of issuance of the solicitation. For evaluation of offers, the Government will use the port handling and ocean charges made available by the Directorate of International Traffic, Military Surface Deployment and Distribution Command (SDDC) rate information letters, on file as of the date of bid opening (or the closing date specified for receipt of offers) and which will be effective for the date of the expected initial shipment. Alternate II (Apr 1984) . When offers are solicited on an f.o.b. origin only basis, delete paragraphs (c) and (f) from the basic provision, but do not redesignate the ensuing paragraphs. Add the following basic paragraph (g) to the provision: (g) Paragraphs (c) and (f) have been deleted but ensuing paragraphs have not been redesignated. Alternate III (Apr 1984) . When offers are solicited on an f.o.b. destination only basis, delete paragraph (b) from the basic provision but do not redesignate the ensuing paragraphs. Delete paragraph (c)(2) and paragraph (f) from the provision and substitute the following paragraph (c)(2) and paragraph (f). Add paragraph (g) below. (c)(2) Offerors shall designate below at least one of the ports of loading listed in paragraph (d) below as their place of delivery. Failure to designate at least one of the ports as the point to which delivery will be made by the Contractor may render the offer nonresponsive. Place of Delivery: ________________________________ [ Offerors insert at least one of the ports listed in paragraph (d)- below .] (f) Price basis . Offerors shall indicate whether prices are based on- □ Paragraph (c), f.o.b. destination ( i.e., a port listed in paragraph (d)); or □ Paragraph (e), f.o.b. destination ( i.e., a port nominated in paragraph (e)). (g) Paragraph (b) has been deleted, but ensuing paragraphs have not been redesignated.
