# FAR 52.219-29 — Notice of Set-Aside for, or Sole-Source Award to, Economically Disadvantaged Women-Owned Small Business Concerns

Part 52 - Solicitation Provisions and Contract Clauses › Subpart 52.2 - Text of Provisions and Clauses

As prescribed in 19.1508 , insert the following clause: Notice of Set-Aside for, or Sole-Source Award to, Economically Disadvantaged Women-Owned Small Business Concerns (Oct 2022) (a) Definitions. Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern as used in this clause, means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States and who are economically disadvantaged in accordance with 13 CFR part 127 , and is certified pursuant to 13 CFR 127.300 as an EDWOSB. It automatically qualifies as a women-owned small business (WOSB) concern eligible under the WOSB Program. WOSB Program Repository means a secure, Web-based application that collects, stores, and disseminates documents to the contracting community and SBA, which verify the eligibility of a business concern for a contract to be awarded under the WOSB Program. (b) Applicability . This clause applies only to— (1) Contracts that have been set aside for, or awarded on a sole-source basis to, EDWOSB concerns; (2) Part or parts of a multiple-award contract that have been set aside for EDWOSB concerns; (3) Orders set aside for EDWOSB concerns under multiple-award contracts as described in 8.405-5 and 16.505 (b)(2)(i)(F); and (4) Orders issued directly to EDWOSB concerns under multiple-award contracts as described in 19.504 (c)(1)(ii). (c) General. (1) For EDWOSB set-aside procurements, offers are solicited only from certified EDWOSB concerns or EDWOSB concerns with a pending application for certification in the Dynamic Small Business Search (DSBS). (2) For EDWOSB sole-source awards, offers are solicited only from certified EDWOSB concerns. (3) Offers received from other concerns will not be considered. (4) Any award resulting from this solicitation will be made to a certified EDWOSB concern. (d) Joint venture. A joint venture may be considered an EDWOSB concern if— (1) At least one party to the joint venture complies with the criteria defined in paragraph (a) and paragraph (c)(3) of this clause, and 13 CFR 127.506(c) ; and (2) Each party to the joint venture qualifies as small under the size standard for the solicitation, or the protégé is small under the size standard for the solicitation in a joint venture comprised of a mentor and protégé with an approved mentor-protégé agreement under the SBA mentor-protégé program. (e) In a joint venture that complies with paragraph (d) of this clause, the EDWOSB party or parties to the joint venture shall perform at least 40 percent of the work performed by the joint venture. Work performed by the EDWOSB party or parties to the joint venture must be more than administrative functions. (End of clause)
