# FAR 52.247-68 — Report of Shipment (REPSHIP)

Part 52 - Solicitation Provisions and Contract Clauses › Subpart 52.2 - Text of Provisions and Clauses

As prescribed in 47.208-2 , insert the following clause: Report of Shipment (REPSHIP) (Feb 2006) (a) Definition . "Domestic destination", as used in this clause, means- (1) A destination within the contiguous United States; or (2) If shipment originates in Alaska or Hawaii, a destination in Alaska or Hawaii, respectively. (b) Unless otherwise directed by the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall- (1) Send a prepaid notice of shipment to the consignee transportation officer- (i) For all shipments of- (A) Classified material, protected sensitive, and protected controlled material; (B) Explosives and poisons, class 1, division 1.1 , 1.2 and 1.3 ; class 2, division 2.3 and class 6, division 6.1 ; (C) Radioactive materials requiring the use of a III bar label; or (ii) When a truckload/carload shipment of supplies weighing 20,000 pounds or more, or a shipment of less weight that occupies the full visible capacity of a railway car or motor vehicle, is given to any carrier (common, contract, or private) for transportation to a domestic destination (other than a port for export); (2) Transmits the notice by rapid means to be received by the consignee transportation officer at least 24 hours before the arrival of the shipment; and (3) Send, to the receiving transportation officer, the bill of lading or letter or other document containing the following information and prominently identified as a "Report of Shipment"or "REPSHIP FOR T.O." REPSHIP FOR T.O. 81 JUN 01 TRANSPORTATION OFFICER DEFENSE DEPOT, MEMPHIS, TN. SHIPPED YOUR DEPOT 1981 JUN 1 540 CTNS MENS COTTON TROUSERS, 30,240 LB, 1782 CUBE, VIA XX-YY* IN CAR NO. XX 123456**-BL***-C98000031**** CONTRACT DLA_____ETA*****-JUNE 5 JONES & CO., JERSEY CITY, N.J. *Name of rail carrier, trucker, or other carrier. **Vehicle identification. ***Bill of lading. ****If not shipped by BL, identify lading document and state whether paid by contractor. *****Estimated time of arrival. (End of clause)
