# FAR 52.228-11 — Individual Surety—Pledge of Assets

Part 52 - Solicitation Provisions and Contract Clauses › Subpart 52.2 - Text of Provisions and Clauses

As prescribed in 28.203-4 (b), insert the following clause: Individual Surety—Pledge of Assets (Feb 2021) (a) The Contractor shall obtain from each person acting as an individual surety on a performance bond or a payment bond— (1) A pledge of assets that meets the eligibility, valuation, and security requirements described in the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 28.203-1 ; and (2) Standard Form 28, Affidavit of Individual Surety. (b) The Contracting Officer may release a portion of the security interest on the individual surety's assets based upon substantial performance of the Contractor's obligations under its performance bond. The security interest in support of a performance bond shall be maintained— (1) Contracts for the construction, alteration, or repair of any public building or public work of the Federal Government exceeding $150,000 (40 U.S.C. 3131) . Until completion of any warranty period, or for 1 year following final payment, whichever is later. (2) Contracts subject to alternative payment protection (see FAR 28.102-1 (b)(1)) . For the full contract performance period plus 1 year. (3) Other contracts not subject to the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this clause . Until completion of any warranty period, or for 90 days following final payment, whichever is later. (c) A surety's assets pledged in support of a payment bond may be released to a subcontractor or supplier upon Government receipt of a Federal district court judgment, or a sworn statement by the subcontractor or supplier that the claim is correct along with a notarized authorization of the release by the surety stating that it approves of such release. The security interest on the individual surety's assets in support of a payment bond shall be maintained— (1) Contracts for the construction, alteration, or repair of any public building or public work of the Federal Government exceeding $150,000 which require performance and payment bonds (40 U.S.C. 3131) . For 1 year following final payment, or until resolution of all pending claims filed against the payment bond during the 1-year period following final payment, whichever is later. (2) Contracts subject to alternative payment protection (see FAR 28.102-1 (b)(1)) . For the full contract performance period plus 1 year. (3) Other contracts not subject to the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this clause. For 90 days following final payment. (d) The Contracting Officer may allow the Contractor to substitute an individual surety, for a performance or payment bond, after contract award. The Contractor shall comply with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this clause within the timeframe established by the Contracting Officer. (End of clause)
