# FAR 52.219-30 — Notice of Set-Aside for, or Sole-Source Award to, Women-Owned Small Business Concerns Eligible Under the Women-Owned Small Business Program

Part 52 - Solicitation Provisions and Contract Clauses › Subpart 52.2 - Text of Provisions and Clauses

As prescribed in 19.1508 (b), insert the following clause: Notice of Set-Aside for, or Sole-Source Award to, Women-Owned Small Business Concerns Eligible Under the Women-Owned Small Business Program (Oct 2022) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause— Women-owned small business (WOSB) concern eligible under the WOSB Program (in accordance with 13 CFR part 127 ), as used in this clause, means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States, and the concern is certified by SBA or an approved third-party certifier in accordance with 13 CFR 127.300 as a WOSB. A certified EDWOSB is automatically eligible as a certified WOSB. WOSB Program Repository means a secure, Web-based application that collects, stores, and disseminates documents to the contracting community and SBA, which verify the eligibility of a business concern for a contract to be awarded under the WOSB Program. (b) Applicability . This clause applies only to- (1) Contracts that have been set aside for, or awarded on a sole-source basis to, WOSB concerns eligible under the WOSB Program; (2) Part or parts of a multiple-award contract that have been set aside for WOSB concerns eligible under the WOSB Program; (3) Orders set aside for WOSB concerns eligible under the WOSB Program, under multiple-award contracts as described in 8.405-5 and 16.505 (b)(2)(i)(F); and (4) Orders issued directly to WOSB concerns eligible under the WOSB Program under multiple-award contracts as described in 19.504 (c)(1)(ii). (c) General. (1) For WOSB set-aside procurements, offers are solicited only from certified WOSB concerns eligible under the WOSB Program or WOSB concerns with a pending application for certification status in the Dynamic Small Business Search (DSBS). (2) For WOSB sole-source awards, offers are solicited only from certified WOSB concerns. (3) Offers received from other concerns shall not be considered. (4) Any award resulting from this solicitation will be made to a certified WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program. (d) Joint venture. A joint venture may be considered a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program if— (1) At least one party to the joint venture complies with the criteria defined in paragraph (a) and (c)(3) of this clause, and 13 CFR 127.506(c) ; and (2) Each party to the joint venture qualifies as small under the size standard for the solicitation, or the protégé is small under the size standard for the solicitation in a joint venture comprised of a mentor and protégé with an approved mentor-protégé agreement under the SBA mentor-protégé program. (e) In a joint venture that complies with paragraph (d) of this clause, the WOSB party or parties to the joint venture shall perform at least 40 percent of the work performed by the joint venture. Work performed by the WOSB party or parties to the joint venture must be more than administrative functions. (End of clause)
